=head1 NAME 

bibsys2koha - scripts for migrating from BIBSYS to Koha

=head1 ABOUT

BIBSYS is a Norwegian ILS, used by academic and special libraries. Koha is the world's first (and coolest) free software ILS. The scripts provided by bibsys2koha are meant to facilitate a migration from BIBSYS to Koha. 

=head1 SCRIPTS

Run Perl scripts with the -h option for details about what each script does and what arguments can be supplied.

=over 4

=item * migrate-sample.sh is an example of how the other scripts can be tied
together to do a migration

=item * prep.sh - Prepares the files for use with items.pl

=item * items.pl - Assemble records and item info into a MARCXML file that can be imported into Koha

=back

=head1 FILES FROM BIBSYS

The export from BIBSYS will typically consist of two files:

=over 4

=item * .mrk - MARC records in line format

=item * .dok - items in MARC line format

=back

or:

=over 4

=item *-objektposter.txt - MARC records in line format

=item *-dokumentposter.txt - items in MARC line format

=back

Records in both files contain a 000 field with a record identifier (called 
Objektid in BIBSYS), which can be used to link items to records. E.g.:

  *00097015822x

Here, 97015822x is the record identifier and *000 designates the field. 

=head1 HOW TO USE THIS? **NEEDS AN UPDATE!**

=over 4

=item 1 Make sure you are in the same directory as the unzipped export from BIBSYS

=item 2 Run prep.sh. This will result in two new files: records.mrk and items.txt. 

=item 3 Convert from .mrk to .mrc by running the line2iso.pl script from LibrioTools ( https://github.com/MagnusEnger/LibrioTools )

=item 4 Prepare the config files as desribed in the POD of items.pl.

=item 5 Run items.pl. This will result in a MARCXML file containing records and items, which can be imported into Koha.

=item 6 Run bulkmarcimport.pl from Koha. Remember to use the "-m MARCXML" switch. 

=item 7 Run rebuild_zebra.pl from Koha. 

=back

=head1 BARCODES

If the library that is being migrated has barcodes connected to DOKIDs, the 
barcodes might not be part of the exported item information, but might come in a 
separate file. This file contains DOKIDs and barcodes separated by a space. To 
change the order of the "columns", something like this might be used:

  awk -v RS="\r" -v FS=" " -v ORS="\n" -v OFS=" " '{print $2,$1}' f1.txt > f2.txt

The resulting file can then be turned into SQL similar to this:

  UPDATE items SET barcode = '<barcode>' WHERE barcode = '<DOKID>';

The resulting SQL file can then be run against the database after the other 
item information has been migrated. 

=head1 TODO

This is a work in progress. Each new migration it is used for reveals some new
things that need to be fixed. Here is a list of currently known issues:

=over 4

=item * Merge 571$b into 571$a. (571$b is defined in BIBSYS-MARC, but NORMARC only has 571$a.)

=back

=head1 GOTCHAS

If you are requesting an export from BIBSYS, with a view to migration, insist on the following being part of the data exported:

=over 4

=item * Barcodes (if they differ from DOKIDS, see the BARCODES section above)

=item * All URLs for electronic documents should be in 856$u

=item * Single issues of periodicals should be exported as items

=back

=head1 GITHUB

https://github.com/Libriotech/bibsys2koha

=head1 HISTORY

items.pl was formerly known as bibsys-items.pl in the LibrioTools project: https://github.com/MagnusEnger/LibrioTools

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright 2015 Magnus Enger Libriotech

=head1 LICENSE

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

These files are distributed in the hope that they will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this file; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

=cut
